# 1.1 — Installation

## Commands

- `rustup` — CLI tool for managing Rust versions and associated tools. When using it, you need an internet connection for the download. Rust is installed and managed by the `rustup` tool. You should see the version number, commit hash, and commit date for the latest stable version that has been released, in the following format:

  ```
  rustc x.y.z (abcabcabc yyyy-mm-dd)
  ```

- `rustup update` — update Rust to the newest version.

- `rustup self uninstall` — uninstall Rust and `rustup`.

- `rustup doc` — local copy of the Rust documentation, offline.

- Setting up a project with dependencies:

  ```
  cargo new get-dependencies
  cd get-dependencies
  cargo add rand@0.8.5 trpl@0.2.0
  ```

  This downloads Rust packages (i think beyond the standard library) and caches the downloads, so you won't need to download them later. Useful if you have no internet connection later. `get-dependencies` is a folder. If you've run this command, you can use the `--offline` flag with all `cargo` commands in the rest of the book to use the cached versions instead of using the network.

- `rustc --version` — check whether Rust is installed. Just to be aware of.

- If I have a different Rust version, I'll still be able to compile, but with a newer version the output may differ a bit, since Rust often improves error messages and warnings.

- To write something in the CLI, it has to start with `$` — that's the command line prompt, marking the start of a new command.

- Lines that don't start with `$` are the output of the previous command that ran.


## Installation on Windows (installing rustup)

- To start using Rust, we have to download the installer.
- Install the compiler and the package manager (Cargo).

- `rustup` metadata and toolchains will be installed into the `rustup` home directory (`.rustup`), which can be modified with the `RUSTUP_HOME` environment variable. (`.cargo` can be modified with the `CARGO_HOME` environment variable.)

- `cargo`, `rustc`, `rustup` and other commands will be added to Cargo's bin directory (`.cargo\bin`).

- This path will then be added to your `PATH` environment variable by modifying the `PATH` registry key at `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment`.

- You can uninstall at any time with `rustup self uninstall` and these changes will be reverted.


## Questions I need to find the answer for

- What is a shell? How is this connected to Rust / a programming language?
- What did we install exactly? What is its purpose? What is it for? Why is it needed?


## Recap

- The CLI tool used for managing the version of Rust is `rustup`.
